





Software Requirements Specification

Version 1.0

September 23, 2019

Doctor-Patient Portal

Lucas Simpson
Ngan Tran
Anthony Nguyen
Ryan Vo





1. Introduction

1.1 Purpose
  One of the main issues that many doctors and patients face is communication. There have been many times in which a patient needed help from a doctor, but has no good way to contact them or to let them know in advance any sort of changes happened to their body. There’s also been instances of doctors needing to contact patients in order to remind them of medications/treatments, or to tell them that there’s been a change in them. Therefore, the creation of a portal for both patients and doctors to use would be immensely useful for them.
  The patient portal was chosen to be our project since it’s convenient for doctors, nurses and patients. Firstly, it is an environmentally friendly way to keep track of our medical records digitally rather than physically, which also lower the risk of losing important documents. With the portal, both doctors and patients can have access to the patients’ medical history and prescriptions. Besides, sometimes it’s difficult to reach our doctors, and the portal can be an easy way to communicate between doctors and patients. On top of that, patients can easily schedule a doctor appointment using the portal, and doctors can also manage their working schedule however they want.

1.2 Scope
  Doctors - The doctors need to have access to all of their patients' medical records and their contact information. In addition, the doctor needs to have a schedule which shows their current appointments with their patients and other activities which need to be scheduled. There should also be a method for the doctor to block out certain times to prevent patients from scheduling appointments during that time. Finally, the doctor should have access to references they may need to consult and an easy way to store recommendations for other doctors or specialists which can be accessed by their patients.
  Patients - The patient needs to have access to their individual medical records and have the ability to edit their contact information. In addition, a schedule should be available which shows their past appointments with the doctor and any future
appointments which may be scheduled. The patient should also be able to view their doctor's schedule in order to schedule an appointment through the system.

1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, Abbreviations

1.4 Reference Documents

1.5 Overview
	The Doctor-Patient Portal serves as a way to connect the patient and their doctor. This is accomplished by having everything needed for the patient and the doctor in one central location. For the patient, they need to be able to schedule and talk with their doctor and view their own medical records in a secure fashion. For the doctor, they need to be able to set their own availability	for appointments, view their patients' medical records in a secure fashion, and be able to talk to their patients.

2. Overall Descriptions
	The doctor-patient portal provides an efficient way of communication between doctors and patients. Additionally, patients can use the portal to schedule or cancel their appointments, and doctors can also view and adjust their work schedule effectively. On top of that, the portal is an archive storing patient medical records and prescriptions, which both doctors and patients can keep track of. 

2.1 Product Perspective
	The doctor-patient portal is a new way of communicating between doctors and patients. Patients can schedule their doctor’s appointments without the hassle of calling and confirming with the clinic. Additionally, the portal is an eco-friendly way for patients to keep track of important medical records and prescriptions.

2.2 Product Functions
	Nurses and doctors can schedule or cancel appointments, and they can adjust doctors’ work schedule. Besides, they can view their current appointments with patients. Doctors and nurses can also message patients to remind them of their appointments or other activities such as blood testing, MRI scans, etc.  On top of that, they can view patients’ medical records as well as prescriptions. 
	On the other hand, patients can schedule appointment based on doctor’s schedule. Additionally, patients can view their current and future appointments with doctors, and they can message doctors when needed. Besides, they can view their medical records and prescriptions on the portal.
	
2.3 User characteristics
	Adult patients who are very busy with their lives and work, but they need to schedule doctor’s appointment consistently. For example, ideal patients who need this software is pregnant women, diabetic patients or patients with thyroid goiters, etc. Besides, doctors and nurses are also the users of the portal.

2.4 Constraints
	Since medical records are confidential, security is an important characteristic of the software. Thus, doctors and patients will need usernames and passwords to access the portal. Additionally, time and resouces are other constraints for this program since we're college students. Therefore, this software's GUI will be very simple, and security matters will not be focused in this software. 

2.5 Assumptions and dependencies
	We’ll assume that only adult patients have access to this software. 


3. Specific Requirements

3.1 External interface

3.1.1 User interfaces
	The user will interact with the system via any web browser.
	
3.1.2 Hardware interfaces
	All hardware interacting with the system should possess the ability to connect to the internet to transfer and receive data on the website.
	
3.1.3 Software interfaces
	N/A (currently)
	
3.1.4 Communication interfaces
	The Doctor-Patient portal system will connect and transfer data over the internet using HTTP protocols.

3.2 Functional requirements
	The system will mark users based on their user-status and user interaction and interfaces with the website will be based on this user-status and respond accordingly.
	
3.2.1 Functional Requirement 1
	ID: FR1
	TITLE: Account Creation
	DESC: User will register for their account creation.
	SCENARIO: Patient
		Patient-user will enter valid user personal information, new login credentials, and is prompted to fill out survey for medical preferences/information.
	SCENARIO: Doctor
		Doctor-user will enter valid user information, and new login credentials.
	
3.2.2 Functional Requirement 2
	ID: FR2
	TITLE: User Login
	DESC: User enters valid Username and Password credidentials, which are checked against database values, and granted website access if validated.

3.2.3 Functional Requirement 3
	ID: FR3
	TITLE: User Dashboard
	DESC: After login, user will land on their respective dashboard.
	FEATURE: User can interact with dashboard based on their user-status
	SENARIO: Doctor Dashboard
		Doctor-users are able to interact with their calendar, messages, and patient records.
	SENARIO: Patient Dashboard
		Patient-users are able to view their doctor's calendar, message their doctor, schedule an appointment, and view their own records.
		
3.2.4 Functional Requirement 4
	ID: FR4
	FEATURE: Viewing/Updating Doctor Calendar
	SCENARIO: Doctor
		The doctor-user will be able to access their calendar by clicking the 'Calendar' tab on the top menu. On the calendar form, the doctor-user can click the calendar edit button or a specific day on the calendar view to update/add a timeslot to the calendar. 	
	SCENARIO: Patient
		The patient-user can view their primary doctor's schedule from the patient dashboard via a calendar view.
		
3.2.5 Functional Requirement 5
	ID: FR5
	FEATURE: Viewing/Replying to messages
	SCENARIO: Viewing/Replying to message
		Both the doctor and patient-users can view messages via the message tab on the top menu. The doctor-user has a message view box on the doctor dashboard as well. The user can reply to a message by clicking the message box, typing their reply, and clicking the send button. 
		
3.2.6 Functional Requirement 6
	ID: FR6
	FEATURE: Scheduling Appointment
		Patient-users can schedule an appointment with their doctor by clicking on the 'Schedule a visit' tab on the top menu and filling out the schedule form. Their doctor can confirm the scheduling, which will automatically update the doctor's schedule and notify the patient of the confirmation.
	
3.2.7 Functional Requirement 7
	ID: FR7
	FEATURE: Viewing patient records
		Both the doctor and patient can access records via the 'Patient records' tab on the top menu. A list of records will be displayed on the records screen. A record can be clicked on to bring up a more detailed page of the record. The record list can be filtered based on date on both sides, and by name on the doctor's side.

3.3 Performance requirements
     Fast, reliable, efficient, user-friendliness, must have 2 different features for doctors and patients.
3.4 Design constraints
     No security in terms of keeping accounts safe from any sort of "attacks" for now; solely focused on making the other features work for now.
3.5 Other requirements


4. Appendices

	ID:		Dependencies:		Description:		Motivation:		Release #:
	
	FR1		-			User account 		Account creation	1
						creation		is required for
									users to have 
									application
									access credentials.
	--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	FR2		FR1			User account		User account needs	1
						login			to be validated
									before used can
									access site.
	--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	FR3		FR2			User dependent		Doctors and patients	1
						dashboard		have different
									functionalities, this
									is reflected in the
									dashboards
	--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	FR4		FR2			Doctor calendar		Patients can use this	1
						view/update		information to find
									an appropriate time
									to contact their doctor
	--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	FR5		FR2			Message viewing/	Quick and easy 		1
						replying		communication between
									doctor and patient.
	--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	FR6		FR2			Appointment		Quick and easy		1
						scheduling		appointment scheduling.
	--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	FR7		FR2			User record		Quick and easy 		1
						viewing			record access.


5. Index
